---
layout: post
title: Unsupervised Learning Project
---

# War Talk: Presidential Speech During Wartime

## Summary
I investigated the following two questions in this project:
- Are there patterns to how president's discuss war throughout US history?
- Can a president's commitment to a conflict be inferred based on their speech?

### Data
Data for this investigation was based on convention nomination, inaugural, state of the union and farewell speeches which ranged from George Washington in 1789 through Donald Trump in 2018. I created a scrapy script to collect the text from webpages that contained these sources.

### Method
First, Natural Language Processing (NLP) was used to create topics for the analysis. TFIDF and NMF gave me the most coherent topics (compared to CountVectorizer with LDA). Out of 20 topics, I selected 6 war-based topics. The topics were then traced to their source material. It could then be observed which topics were used during certain conflicts and which presidents used them. Finally, the percentage of each topic was calculated for each speech so that a metric could be established for how "war-heavy" each speech was.

### Results
In general, the war-related topics were war and speaker specific and no particular linguistic pattern was observed throughout the nation's history. With the notable exception of Abraham Lincoln's speech patterns during the Civil War, correlation of war-heavy speeches with war commitment was observed. Presidents such as Franklin Roosevelt, Lyndon Johnson and George W. Bush had strong commitments to wars which took place during their administrations. A high percentage of war topics made up their speeches. It was interesting to compare speech patterns of successors for conflicts that extended beyond a president's administration. It was observed that the speeches of Richard Nixon and Barack Obama both contained much less war-related topics. This correlated with unpopular wars that extended into their administrations.
